# Storyboards

Apple created Storyboards to make life easier for developers. Apple describes a Storyboard as **"a visual representation of the user interface for an iOS application".** The beauty of the Storyboard is it allows us to create a robust UI without having to dive into coding. This encourages the tried and true practice of building the UI first before hooking it up to code.

We will first create a book regarding our passion for iOS using multiple Scenes (screens). This will help us practice transitioning from screen to screen.  **We will then create a new project that does exactly what we did with multiple scenes with just one scene.** **Transitioning between scenes is easy to do but should not be abused. We need to think ****carefully whether**** something deserves its own scene or is part of the current one.** We will use only a single scene in this chapter. **A single scene is very powerful.**

## View Controller + Views

A scene corresponds to a single View Controller and its views. As we will see as we move through the course, every scene has its own View Controller that uses the scene to display many Views to the user. **The Scene defines the layout and placement of different "Views" or components on the page while the View Controller manages the Scene as well as all the states of the different Views (components) that make up that Scene.** This will become more and more apparent as we move through the chapter.

## I Want To Play My Storyboards v.1

Let's put our iOSQuiz application on hold for now and start on a new application to illustrate how we go from scene to scene. **We will first go over concepts that we haven't covered yet, to illustrate the role of storyboards (go from one scene to another and see the flow from a high level). We will build an application like this one for an assignment, so this isn't our only opportunity to practice things such as IBOutlet and IBAction. Just focus on the high-level concepts for this tab.**

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/142831600" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen="" kwframeid="2"></iframe>

## I Want To Play My Storyboards v.2

**Just because we can use many scenes doesn't mean we should overuse and abuse them.** It is important to use View Controllers to add logic to a scene and thereby make it more powerful. Let's see this in action with the next video.

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/142832099" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen="" kwframeid="3"></iframe>

## Gotcha

**We have to be careful when removing IBOutlets and IBActions**. Deleting them from our code doesn't ensure that the connection no longer exists. If we get a strange error saying that connections we deleted still exist, click on the ViewController and go to the Connections Inspector to check whether all connections are correctly hooked up.

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/142832760" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen="" kwframeid="4"></iframe>

## Connections

**A View Controller's job is to manage a single screen from your app**. **We let a View Controller control our screen by making connections between our UI elements in the Storyboard by control-dragging them into the View Controller code.**

**A connection lets one object know where another object is in memory so that the two objects can communicate. **

*   An **Outlet** points to, or references, an object
*   An** Action** is a method that gets triggered by a button or some other view that the user interacts with

**An Outlet connects a property in code to a View object in a storyboard. This lets us read and write to the object's properties** like reading a value of a button, or a slider, or the contents of a text field. **An Action connects an event generated by user interaction with a storyboard to a method in our code.** This lets us respond to specific events triggered by objects in our storyboard. You might wonder why we have to specify IBOutlet and IBAction in our code. This syntax is not part of Swift. We put it there so Xcode can figure out to put the little dot there and make it connect to the UI in the storyboard. The IB prefix stands for Interface Builder.